# An Analysis Tool for Railway Network Management
## Project was delivered on April, 10th of 2023.

The purpose of the project is to develop an analysis tool for Railway Network. The tool will use a realistic dataset that resebles a real-life Railway Network of Portugal.
The tool is to help to decide on how to best assign selected trains to lines, 
maximize revenue when multiple levels of service are offered, 
and identify sensitive sections of the network to failures to anticipate service disruption or mitigate its effects. 


The project was developed by bachelor students of the 
_Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto_ as a Theoretical-Practical component of _Algorithm Design_ course.


* David Burchakov (up202203777@edu.fe.up.pt)

* Pedro José Nunes Moutinho de Antas de Barros (up202108706@edu.fe.up.pt)


### Checklist
* [T1.1: 1.0 point] :heavy_check_mark: Obviously, a first task will be to create a simple interface menu exposing all the
functionalities implemented in the most user-friendly way possible. This menu will also be instrumental
for you to showcase the work you have developed in a short demo to be held at the end of the project.


* [T1.2: 1.0 point] :heavy_check_mark: Similarly, you will also have to develop some basic functionality (accessible through
your menu) to read and parse the provided data set files. This functionality will enable you (and the
eventual user) to select alternative railway networks for analysis. With the extracted information, you
are to create one (or more) appropriate graphs upon which you will carry out the requested tasks. The
modelling of the graph is entirely up to you, so long as it is a sensible representation of the railway
network and enables the correct application of the required algorithms.


* [T1.3: 2.0 points] :heavy_check_mark: In addition, you should also include documentation of all the implemented code,
using Doxygen, indicating for each implemented algorithm the corresponding time complexity

* [T2.1: 3.5 points] :heavy_check_mark: Calculate the maximum number of trains that can simultaneously travel between
two specific stations. Note that your implementation should take any valid source and destination
stations as input;    


* [T2.2: 2.0 points] :heavy_check_mark: Determine, from all pairs of stations, which ones (if more than one) require the
most amount of trains when taking full advantage of the existing network capacity;


* [T2.3: 1.5 points] :heavy_check_mark: Indicate where management should assign larger budgets for the purchasing and
maintenance of trains. That is, your implementation should be able to report the top-k municipalities
and districts, regarding their transportation needs;


* [T2.4: 1 point] :heavy_check_mark: Report the maximum number of trains that can simultaneously arrive at a given station,
taking into consideration the entire railway grid


* [T3.1: 2.0 points] :heavy_check_mark: Calculate the maximum amount of trains that can simultaneously travel between
two specific stations with minimum cost for the company. Note that your system should also take any
valid source and destination stations as input;


* [T4.1: 2.5 points]  :heavy_check_mark: Calculate the maximum number of trains that can simultaneously travel between
two specific stations in a network of reduced connectivity. Reduced connectivity is understood as being
a subgraph (generated by your system) of the original railway network. Note that your system should
also take any valid source and destination stations as input;


* [T4.2: 1.5 points] :heavy_check_mark: Provide a report on the stations that are the most affected by each segment failure,
i.e., the top-k most affected stations for each segment to be considered


* [T5.1: 2.0 points] :heavy_check_mark: Use the (hopefully) user-friendly interface you have developed to illustrate the
various algorithm results for a sample set of railway grids which you should develop specifically for the
purposes of this demo. For instance, you can develop a small set of very modest railway networks for
contrived capacities so that you can highlight the “correctness” of your solution. For instance, a grid
that has a “constricted” segment where all traffic must go through, will clearly have a segment very
“sensitive” to failures.
